# Curiosity Report: Netflix DevOps

## Andrew Redd

Looking into the devops of Netflix really more about a culture of devops with team and programer ownership over their individual products and requirement. Originally when netflix started streaming in 2007, they were using datacenters but in 2008 they had a massive fire in one of their datacenters which lead to them working to be a datacenter free company and distribution. This ultimately became quite advantageous to them using a flexible system running and AWS. For a while 30% of internet usage in the United States Was netflix this can be extremely expensive in bandwidth costs to all of the different ISP's so netflix started building caching boxes that were distributed across the country into small ISP's and their switching and infrastructure. By Moving their some of their popular shows and properties to these caching boxes within the ISP's allowed the data be transmitter "The Movies and Show's" to require less ISP transitions and bandwidth across multiple ISP to be distributed into households. I am unsure if they still use these caching boxes distributed to smaller ISP's and switches, as they have fully transitioned over to Amazon Web Services. 

### Devops

When Netflix started to stream the way they focused on devops is less traditional than many companies. Originally extreme reliability was not their focus because occasional dropouts and buffering of media is less of a concern for leisure activities as opposed to things like financial transactions between banks or stock purchases which if latency can get crashes occur then huge sums of money can be lost or more stocks then are actually available can exits etc. But building Dev Ops into the culture while giving the developers the freedom to explore and destroy ultimately lead to a very robust system we know today.

Netflix doesn't need all the 9's so in their culture there isn't an uptime at all cost, instead there is a focus on velocity of innovation. Building new features and releasing them, keeping customers happy by listening to what they want and implementing them instead of long periods of no new features. Things like recognizing they were 30% of traffic in the US and building Systems to be placed as caches in smaller ISP switches to save on bandwidth costs, which the ISP's were interested in because it reduced Their required bandwidth and communication.

Instead of so much QA Netflix has built integration testing suites into the parts they need to work. For example financial transactions, to pay for the service has an integration test suite of about 2000+ test to make sure new features don't break what they need to work. New features can be released as long as they don't break the existing integration. Building to not break what needs to be reliable instead of making sure each new feature has gone through extremely rigorous QA separate from the developers gives freedom and flexibility to the teams. 

Netflix is a data driven company so much to the point that having displays with dashboards like grafana are impractical. Instead of too many screens to see all the datapoints and metric's they are collecting, and expecting a single person to discover and see a problem in that data overload, they instead have developers work on building tools and models and machine learning algorithms to make sense of all that data, so they can suggest better content. 

You can't about Netflix without mentioning the Gorilla in the room... The chaos monkey suite of tools which are all available on their github repo. Because there isn't a focus on Uptime at all cost they insert chaos into the actual systems to see how the systems respond and balance in so doing they have build reliability into their systems. Ultimately building more test suites and chaos to continue to test and improve their system. Again a culture of Devops that occurs because of their choices. 

A big thing is Netflix trusts their developers and they give them freedom within their teams to produce and build what they want and need. there aren't requirements or standards for the languages they use as long as they can implement with other teams and their products. Netflix ultimately has become and Icon of devops by building a culture of experimentation creation and just breaking a whole lot of things until they couldn't be broken anymore. 