# Incident: 2025-04-09 12-00-24

## Summary

>
> At about 12:00 grafana started recieving errors from the logs that pizza's were unable to be purchased and notified me. I was next to my computer so I pulled up the logs and and started looking and seeing an error 500 being returned along with a message for a url. At which point I logged in as well as the generate traffic and personally attempted to purchase and verify a pizza where i was met with the message saying it was unable to. At which point I plugged in the url to my browser and was met with a JSON message saying that the chaos testing was completed.


## Detection

> As soon as an error was reported on the logs I was notified at which point I looked at the logs where it had registerd the error and read the logs where I found the url to stop the chaos testing. It is unreasonable to be notified with 1 single error I could have a pattern of 5 or so errors within a minute at which point I could be notified and check the logs and start fixing the problem.

## Impact

> The impact to the system made it impossible to purchase and verify a JWT Pizza I had stopped the chaos testing by 12:03 so durring that time it registered 5 errors. Which is 5 potential lost customers and lost trust. in this case it was my traffic loop so there isn't necicarily lost potential with it but if it had continued this would have affected lots of customers.

## Timeline

> [!NOTE]
> All times MST or UTC-6
- _12:00:24_ first error occured and notification sent.
- _12:01_ - _12:02_ checked logs to see some errors reported
- _12:02_ - 12:03_ logged in personally and verified that pizzas were unable to be purchased
- _12:03_ - 12:04_ signed into the URL from error 500 message to stop chaos testing
- _12:05 - verified it was running normally and stopped artifical traffic. 


## Response

> I responded to the incedient when I was notified of an error.


## Root cause

> The root cause of this incident was when my JWT-pizza was contacting the jwt-pizza factory the factory must have gone offline and was returning 500 error messages when attempted to be contacted to purchase JWT pizzas. My repository was being Chaos tested


## Resolution

> contacting the JWT pizza factory through the url given to me in the error message returned with the 500 to again reinstate my ability to contact and purchase JWT pizzas.


## Prevention

> Stay in the good graces of the jwt-pizza factory so they don't cut off my franchising and purchasing abilities of JWT pizzas. Or don't click the ready to chaos test on the autograder website.

```md
**EXAMPLE**:

This same root cause resulted in incidents HOT-13432, HOT-14932 and HOT-19452.
```

## Action items

1. Continue to have good logging and notification of errors to be able to respond rapidly to issues.
2. Stay in good graces with the Pizza Factory

